Title: How does the internet work?
When 2 devices connect to each other wired or wirelessly forming something called a network. you can connect multiple devices to the same network, and can be complicated as each device needs to be connected to all the other devices in the network in order to communicate effectively with each other. A Network Switch allows multiple devices to connect and communicate with each other in a network. The network switch can connect to other network switches to form a larger network, until you have something called an interconnected network(the internet).
a client server model is a way to stream or view website on the internet. the services are provided by servers. Our devices are called clients. (the internet connects the entire world). There are more details but this is the big picture of how things work.

A server is a computer that runs applications and services ranging from websites to instant messaging. its called a server because it provides services to another computer and its user or the client, its stored in a database, with 100s or 1000s of servers, all running different services connected to the internet, there are many different systems in data centers to ensure that servers have power internet, and are kept cool 24hrs a day. Data centers are all over the world and many websites use these to provide the services nearest to you. the database servers are built on the services they render, if the server is only used to store images then it will need more storage space, if it need to compute calculations the server might have faster processor and more memory(ram). The Hardware is the physical components of the server. and the software is soft or easy to change, you just replace the code running on the server. we will focus on web servers.
Web servers have many function, which include website storage and administration, data storage, security and managing emails, and handling web requests. when you open a web browser and type the name of the website, its the job of that website to send you back to that websites content, this process is known as the request and response cycle. Web servers are designed to respond to thousand of requests per second.

Webpages and Website, a webpage is a document that displays video, images, text and other content in the browser. A website is a collection of webpages that link together. They also do not have to link to the same website and can link to other websites as well. Hundreds of thousands of websites are launched every day. In its most basic form a webpage is just a text document, you can open and edit it in a text editor. HTML, CSS and Javascript make up a webpage, HTML is the structure of the webpage, CSS is the style of the webpage, and Javascript is the programming language that allows user interaction.

Brief Overview of HTML, CSS and Javascript.
HTML, Hypertext Markup Language. it works by using markup tags, these tags describe the content that is displayed, things like headings, paragraphs, images, and multimedia such as audio and video, the way HTML describes the content is called markup.
CSS, Cascading Style Sheets.
CSS, adds visual enhancements like colors, fonts, and layout to HTML. it works by enhancing the HTML elements and telling them how to display.
JavaScript, is a programming language built into the browser. JS provides developers with tools for interactivity, data process, control, and action, like logins or youtube updates. JavaScript has the ability to manipulate the content as you interact with it.
Page Rendering is the process of displaying content on the screen.

A web Browser or Browser for short is a software that allows you to view the World Wide Web. it works by sending a request to a web server and then receives a response containing the content to be displayed on the screen of your device. once the browser is open there is the address bar where you input the address of the website you want to visit. the address is known as the URL (Uniform Resource Locator). The URL contains the protocol, the domain name and the file path. when you make a request the browser and server communicate using a protocol known as the Hyper text Transfer Protocol, or HTTP. this is known as the request and response cycle.

By using your favorite search engine, the name you type is called a domain name, the browser sends a request to another computer on the internet called a web server, a special type of computer that allows other computers to make requests for data, the web server responds by sending a webpage back to the browser. the webpage is a coded document that is rendered by the browser, then presented visually to you. by searching something, the request is sent to the same search engine web server, this time the request contains the added instructions for the phrase you are searching for. the search engine web server processes the request by taking the keyword and using it to find the requested data. this data is stored in a database which is connected to the web server the web server picks up that data and sends it back to the browser, rendering the Links, Maps, and other related content such as reviews and reservations, all made possible by computers having a conversation, this is an insight on how the request and response cycle works.

Web Hosting, is a service that lets you launch websites to the internet without having your own data center. You place your website and files on the hosting companies web server, essentially renting the space in return for stable and secure storage. some of the different types of hosting include Shared hosting, Virtual Private Hosting, Dedicated Hosting, and